I've worked in exactly two factories in my life. I hated one, and worhipped the other. I will never know how life would have unfolded without the experiences and friendships I've gained there. 20 years later, thousands of kilometers away, surrounded by the comforts and strangenesss of a different country, I feel like I can finally talk about these places of work candidly and truthfully. Let me begin with how I heard about Photocircuits Philippines. It was right before I graduated.

### Like a moth to a flame
I graduated with a degree in engineering in one of the most misunderstood colleges in the Philippines. Mapua Institute of Technology in Intramuros Manila had (and still has) a good reputation for producing solid people. 

We were never the brightest (that was UP), nor the most resourceful (that was PUP), but we were the most accustomed to hardships and getting our proverbial asses whooped and handed back to us by our professors. We ate our own mistakes for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. That was the way. I guess we were the roman legionaires of our time. We simply trudged along.

Around the final year, one gets to attend job fairs inside the campus. There are booths and fliers and representatives. But the most prestiguos of these companies reserve exam rooms. Companies like Intel, Analog Devices and Amkor would often only invite the best of the best. That was the case with Photocircuits. I only knew that they setup the exams by hearing it from Jerome, an acquaintance who was obviously smarter. He took the exam, did not pass, and said it felt like missing out on a great opportunity because being accepted at Photocircuits is an automatic travel and traing to the US. It was an ubelievable opportunity for anyone, let alone a fresh graduate. Jerome distinctyly said that the examiners were snobbish and seemed to all come from UP. 2 years later, I would take the exam and fail myself. I do not think they were snobbish, only misunderstood.